# configure

**configure**(*connection*:  Optional\[Connection\] = None, *url*:  Optional\[[str]\] = None, *dialect_name*:  Optional\[[str]\] = None, *dialect_opts*:  Optional\[[dict]\] = None, *transactional_ddl*:  Optional\[[bool]\] = None, *transaction_per_migration*:  [bool] = False, *output_buffer*:  Optional\[TextIO\] = None, *starting_rev*:  Optional\[[str]\] = None, *tag*:  Optional\[[str]\] = None, *template_args*:  Optional\[[dict]\] = None, *render_as_batch*:  [bool] = False, *target_metadata*:  Optional\[MetaData\] = None, *include_name*:  Optional\[Callable\] = None, *include_object*:  Optional\[Callable\] = None, *include_schemas*:  [bool] = False, *process_revision_directives*:  Optional\[Callable\] = None, *compare_type*:  [bool] = False, *compare_server_default*:  [bool] = False, *render_item*:  Optional\[Callable\] = None, *literal_binds*:  [bool] = False, *upgrade_token*:  [str] = 'upgrades', *downgrade_token*:  [str] = 'downgrades', *alembic_module_prefix*:  [str] = 'op.', *sqlalchemy_module_prefix*:  [str] = 'sa.', *user_module_prefix*:  Optional\[[str]\] = None, *on_version_apply*:  Optional\[Callable\] = None, **kw) → None

[str]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str
[dict]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict
[bool]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#bool
[MigrationContext]: #alembic.runtime.migration.MigrationContext
[EnvironmentContext]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext
[configure()]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure
[is_offline_mode()]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.is_offline_mode
[sqlalchemy.engine.Connection]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/connections.html#sqlalchemy.engine.Connection
[Connection]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/connections.html#sqlalchemy.engine.Connection
[run_migrations()]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.run_migrations
[sqlalchemy.engine.url.URL]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/engines.html#sqlalchemy.engine.URL
[Config]: ../zh/08_03_configuration.md
[Operations.inline_literal()]: ../en/../ops.html#alembic.operations.Operations.inline_literal
[sqlalchemy.schema.MetaData]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.MetaData
[MetaData]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.MetaData
[Comparing Types]: ../en/../autogenerate.html#compare-types
[EnvironmentContext.configure.compare_server_default]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure.params.compare_server_default
[sqlalchemy.engine.reflection.Inspector.get_columns()]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/reflection.html#sqlalchemy.engine.reflection.Inspector.get_columns
[sqlalchemy.schema.Column]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Column
[EnvironmentContext.configure.compare_type]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure.params.compare_type
[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_schemas]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure.params.include_schemas
[Controlling What to be Autogenerated]: ../en/../autogenerate.html#autogenerate-include-hooks
[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_object]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure.params.include_object
[SchemaItem]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.SchemaItem
[Table]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Table
[Column]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Column
[Index]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/constraints.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Index
[UniqueConstraint]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/constraints.html#sqlalchemy.schema.UniqueConstraint
[ForeignKeyConstraint]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/constraints.html#sqlalchemy.schema.ForeignKeyConstraint
[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_name]: #alembic.runtime.environment.EnvironmentContext.configure.params.include_name
[Running “Batch” Migrations for SQLite and Other Databases]: ../en/../batch.html#batch-migrations
[get_schema_names()]: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/reflection.html#sqlalchemy.engine.reflection.Inspector.get_schema_names
[Affecting the Rendering of Types Themselves]: ../en/../autogenerate.html#autogen-render-types
[alembic.operations]: ../en/../ops.html#module-alembic.operations
[Controlling the Module Prefix]: ../en/../autogenerate.html#autogen-module-prefix
[MigrationScript]: ../en/operations.html#alembic.operations.ops.MigrationScript
[Customizing Revision Generation]: ../en/autogenerate.html#customizing-revision
[UpgradeOps]: ../en/operations.html#alembic.operations.ops.UpgradeOps
[DowngradeOps]: ../en/operations.html#alembic.operations.ops.DowngradeOps
[Rewriter]: ../en/autogenerate.html#alembic.autogenerate.rewriter.Rewriter
[Fine-Grained Autogenerate Generation with Rewriters]: ../en/autogenerate.html#autogen-rewriter
[command.revision.process_revision_directives]: ../en/commands.html#alembic.command.revision.params.process_revision_directives

Configure a **[MigrationContext]** within this **[EnvironmentContext]** which will provide database connectivity and other configuration to a series of migration scripts.

Many methods on **[EnvironmentContext]** require that this method has been called in order to function, as they ultimately need to have database access or at least access to the dialect in use. Those which do are documented as such.

The important thing needed by **[configure()]** is a means to determine what kind of database dialect is in use. An actual connection to that database is needed only if the **[MigrationContext]** is to be used in “online” mode.

If the **[is_offline_mode()]** function returns `True`, then no `connection` is needed here. Otherwise, the `connection` parameter should be present as an instance of **[sqlalchemy.engine.Connection]**.

This function is typically called from the `env.py` script within a migration environment. It can be called multiple times for an invocation. The most recent **[Connection]** for which it was called is the one that will be operated upon by the next call to **[run_migrations()]**.

**General parameters**:

* ***connection*** – a **[Connection]** to use for SQL execution in “online” mode. When present, is also used to determine the type of dialect in use.
* ***url*** – a string database **url**, or a **[sqlalchemy.engine.url.URL]** object. The type of dialect to be used will be derived from this if `connection` is not passed.
* ***dialect_name*** – string name of a dialect, such as “postgresql”, “mssql”, etc. The type of dialect to be used will be derived from this if `connection` and `url` are not passed.
* ***dialect_opts*** – dictionary of options to be passed to dialect constructor.
    > *New in version 1.0.12.*
* ***transactional_ddl*** – Force the usage of “transactional” DDL on or off; this otherwise defaults to whether or not the dialect in use supports it.
* ***transaction_per_migration*** – if True, nest each migration script in a transaction rather than the full series of migrations to run.
* ***output_buffer*** – a file-like object that will be used for textual output when the `--sql` option is used to generate SQL scripts. Defaults to `sys.stdout` if not passed here and also not present on the **[Config]** object. The value here overrides that of the **[Config]** object.
* ***output_encoding*** – when using `--sql` to generate SQL scripts, apply this encoding to the string output.
* ***literal_binds*** – when using `--sql` to generate SQL scripts, pass through the `literal_binds` flag to the compiler so that any literal values that would ordinarily be bound parameters are converted to plain strings.
    > **Warning:** Dialects can typically only handle simple datatypes like strings and numbers for auto-literal generation. Datatypes like dates, intervals, and others may still require manual formatting, typically using **[Operations.inline_literal()]**.
    >
    > **Note:** the `literal_binds` flag is ignored on SQLAlchemy versions prior to 0.8 where this feature is not supported.
    >
    >**See also:** **[Operations.inline_literal()]**
* ***starting_rev*** – Override the “starting revision” argument when using `--sql` mode.
* ***tag*** – a string **tag** for usage by custom `env.py` scripts. Set via the `--tag` option, can be overridden here.
* ***template_args*** – dictionary of template arguments which will be added to the template argument environment when running the “revision” command. Note that the script environment is only run within the “revision” command if the –autogenerate option is used, or if the option “revision_environment=true” is present in the alembic.ini file.
* ***version_table*** – The name of the Alembic version table. The default is `'alembic_version'`.
* ***version_table_schema*** – Optional schema to place version table within.
* ***version_table_pk*** – boolean, whether the Alembic version table should use a primary key constraint for the “value” column; this only takes effect when the table is first created. Defaults to True; setting to False should not be necessary and is here for backwards compatibility reasons.
* ***on_version_apply*** – a callable or collection of callables to be run for each migration step. The callables will be run in the order they are given, once for each migration step, after the respective operation has been applied but before its transaction is finalized. Each callable accepts no positional arguments and the following keyword arguments:
  * ctx: the **[MigrationContext]** running the migration,
  * step: a `MigrationInfo` representing the `step` currently being applied,
  * heads: a collection of version strings representing the current `heads`,
  * run_args: the `**kwargs` passed to **[run_migrations()]**.

**Parameters specific** to the autogenerate feature, when `alembic revision` is run with the `--autogenerate` feature:

* ***target_metadata*** – a **[sqlalchemy.schema.MetaData]** object, or a sequence of **[MetaData]** objects, that will be consulted during autogeneration. The tables present in each **[MetaData]** will be compared against what is locally available on the target **[Connection]** to produce candidate upgrade/downgrade operations.

* ***compare_type*** – Indicates type comparison behavior during an autogenerate operation. Defaults to `False` which disables type comparison. Set to `True` to turn on default type comparison, which has varied accuracy depending on backend. See **[Comparing Types]** for an example as well as information on other type comparison options.
    > **See also:** **[Comparing Types]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.compare_server_default]**
* ***compare_server_default*** – Indicates server default comparison behavior during an autogenerate operation. Defaults to `False` which disables server default comparison. Set to `True` to turn on server default comparison, which has varied accuracy depending on backend.

    To customize server default comparison behavior, a callable may be specified which can filter server default comparisons during an autogenerate operation. defaults during an autogenerate operation. The format of this callable is:
    ```python
    def my_compare_server_default(context, inspected_column,
                metadata_column, inspected_default, metadata_default,
                rendered_metadata_default):
        # return True if the defaults are different,
        # False if not, or None to allow the default implementation
        # to compare these defaults
        return None

    context.configure(
        # ...
        compare_server_default = my_compare_server_default
    )
    ```
    inspected_column is a dictionary structure as returned by **[sqlalchemy.engine.reflection.Inspector.get_columns()]**, whereas `metadata_column` is a **[sqlalchemy.schema.Column]** from the local model environment.

    A return value of `None` indicates to allow default server default comparison to proceed. Note that some backends such as Postgresql actually execute the two defaults on the database side to compare for equivalence.
    > **See also:** **[EnvironmentContext.configure.compare_type]**
* ***include_name*** – A callable function which is given the chance to return `True` or `False` for any database reflected object based on its name, including database schema names when the **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_schemas]** flag is set to `True`.

    The function accepts the following positional arguments:
  * name: the `name` of the object, such as schema `name` or table `name`. Will be `None` when indicating the default schema `name` of the database connection.
  * type: a string describing the `type` of object; currently `"schema"`, `"table"`, `"column"`, `"index"`, `"unique_constraint"`, or "foreign_key_constraint"
  * parent_names: a dictionary of “parent” object names, that are relative to the name being given. Keys in this dictionary may include: `"schema_name"`, `"table_name"`.

    E.g.:

    ```python
    def include_name(name, type_, parent_names):
        if type_ == "schema":
            return name in ["schema_one", "schema_two"]
        else:
            return True

    context.configure(
        # ...
        include_schemas = True,
        include_name = include_name
    )
    ```

    > *New in version 1.5.*
    >
    > **See also:** **[Controlling What to be Autogenerated]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_object]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_schemas]**
* ***include_object*** – A callable function which is given the chance to return `True` or `False` for any object, indicating if the given object should be considered in the autogenerate sweep.

    The function accepts the following positional arguments:
  * object: a **[SchemaItem]** `object` such as a **[Table]**, **[Column]**, **[Index]** **[UniqueConstraint]**, or **[ForeignKeyConstraint]** object
  * name: the `name` of the object. This is typically available via `object.name`.
  * type: a string describing the `type` of object; currently `"table"`, `"column"`, `"index"`, `"unique_constraint"`, or "foreign_key_constraint"
  * reflected: `True` if the given object was produced based on table reflection, `False` if it’s from a local `MetaData` object.
  * compare_to: the object being compared against, if available, else `None`.
    E.g.:
    ```python
    def include_object(object, name, type_, reflected, compare_to):
        if (type_ == "column" and
            not reflected and
            object.info.get("skip_autogenerate", False)):
            return False
        else:
            return True

    context.configure(
        # ...
        include_object = include_object
    )
    ```
    For the use case of omitting specific schemas from a target database when **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_schemas]** is set to `True`, the `schema` attribute can be checked for each **[Table]** object passed to the hook, however it is much more efficient to filter on schemas before reflection of objects takes place using the **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_name]** hook.

    > **See also:** **[Controlling What to be Autogenerated]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_name]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_schemas]**

* ***render_as_batch*** <a name="render_as_batch"></a> – if True, commands which alter elements within a table will be placed under a `with batch_alter_table():` directive, so that batch migrations will take place.
    > **See also:** **[Running “Batch” Migrations for SQLite and Other Databases]**
* ***include_schemas*** – If True, autogenerate will scan across all schemas located by the SQLAlchemy **[get_schema_names()]** method, and include all differences in tables found across all those schemas. When using this option, you may want to also use the **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_name]** parameter to specify a callable which can filter the tables/schemas that get included.
    > **See also:** **[Controlling What to be Autogenerated]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_name]**
    >
    > **[EnvironmentContext.configure.include_object]**
* ***render_item*** – Callable that can be used to override how any schema item, i.e. column, constraint, type, etc., is rendered for autogenerate. The callable receives a string describing the type of object, the object, and the autogen context. If it returns False, the default rendering method will be used. If it returns None, the item will not be rendered in the context of a Table construct, that is, can be used to skip columns or constraints within op.create_table():
    ```python
    def my_render_column(type_, col, autogen_context):
        if type_ == "column" and isinstance(col, MySpecialCol):
            return repr(col)
        else:
            return False

    context.configure(
        # ...
        render_item = my_render_column
    )
    ```
    Available values for the type string include: `"column"`, `"primary_key"`, `"foreign_key"`, `"unique"`, `"check"`, `"type"`, `"server_default"`.
    > **See also:** **[Affecting the Rendering of Types Themselves]**
* ***upgrade_token*** – When autogenerate completes, the text of the candidate upgrade operations will be present in this template variable when `script.py.mako` is rendered. Defaults to `upgrades`.
* ***downgrade_token*** – When autogenerate completes, the text of the candidate downgrade operations will be present in this template variable when `script.py.mako` is rendered. Defaults to `downgrades`.
* ***alembic_module_prefix*** – When autogenerate refers to Alembic **[alembic.operations]** constructs, this prefix will be used (i.e. op.create_table) Defaults to “op.”. Can be `None` to indicate no prefix.
* ***sqlalchemy_module_prefix*** – When autogenerate refers to SQLAlchemy **[Column]** or type classes, this prefix will be used (i.e. sa.Column("somename", sa.Integer)) Defaults to “sa.”. Can be `None` to indicate no prefix. Note that when dialect-specific types are rendered, autogenerate will render them using the dialect module name, i.e. `mssql.BIT()`, `postgresql.UUID()`.
* ***user_module_prefix*** – When autogenerate refers to a SQLAlchemy type (e.g. TypeEngine) where the module name is not under the `sqlalchemy` namespace, this prefix will be used within autogenerate. If left at its default of `None`, the `__module__` attribute of the type is used to render the import module. It’s a good practice to set this and to have all custom types be available from a fixed module space, in order to future-proof migration files against reorganizations in modules.
    > **See also:** **[Controlling the Module Prefix]**
* ***process_revision_directives*** <a name="process_revision_directives"></a> – a callable function that will be passed a structure representing the end result of an autogenerate or plain “revision” operation, which can be manipulated to affect how the `alembic revision` command ultimately outputs new revision scripts. The structure of the callable is:
    ```python
    def process_revision_directives(context, revision, directives):
        pass
    ```
    The `directives` parameter is a Python list containing a single **[MigrationScript]** directive, which represents the `revision` file to be generated. This list as well as its contents may be freely modified to produce any set of commands. The section **[Customizing Revision Generation]** shows an example of doing this. The `context` parameter is the **[MigrationContext]** in use, and `revision` is a tuple of `revision` identifiers representing the current `revision` of the database.

    The callable is invoked at all times when the `--autogenerate` option is passed to `alembic revision`. If `--autogenerate` is not passed, the callable is invoked only if the `revision_environment` variable is set to True in the Alembic configuration, in which case the given `directives` collection will contain empty **[UpgradeOps]** and **[DowngradeOps]** collections for `.upgrade_ops` and `.downgrade_ops`. The `--autogenerate` option itself can be inferred by inspecting `context.config.cmd_opts.autogenerate`.

    The callable function may optionally be an instance of a **[Rewriter]** object. This is a helper object that assists in the production of autogenerate-stream rewriter functions.
    > **See also:** **[Customizing Revision Generation]**
    >
    > **[Fine-Grained Autogenerate Generation with Rewriters]**
    >
    > **[command.revision.process_revision_directives]**

**Parameters specific** to individual backends:

* ***mssql_batch_separator*** – The “batch separator” which will be placed between each statement when generating offline SQL Server migrations. Defaults to `GO`. Note this is in addition to the customary semicolon `;` at the end of each statement; SQL Server considers the “batch separator” to denote the end of an individual statement execution, and cannot group certain dependent operations in one step.
* ***oracle_batch_separator*** – The “batch separator” which will be placed between each statement when generating offline Oracle migrations. Defaults to `/`. Oracle doesn’t add a semicolon between statements like most other backends.
